# Animals in the Bible

## License Information

Animals in the Bible © United Bible Societies, 2025. Adapted from: <cite>All Creatures Great and Small: Living Things in the Bible</cite>, by Edward R. Hope © 2005 United Bible Societies. This work is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (<a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/</a>).



--------------------------------


## 标题：部分参考书目 (id: FAUNA:9)

9 标题：部分参考书目
===========

**文本**
------

*Biblia Hebraica Stuttgartensia* （希伯来文圣经）. 1967/77; 5th corrected printing, 1997\. Edited by K. Elliger and W. Rudolph. Stuttgart: Deutsche Bibelgesellschaft.

*Biblia Sacra: Iuxta Vulgatam Versionem* （拉丁文圣经译本）. 1983\. Edited by Robert Weber. Stuttgart: Deutsche Bibelgesellschaft. (Cited as Vulgate.)

*The Greek New Testament* （希腊文新约圣经－GNT5）. 5th revised edition, 2014\. Edited by Barbara Aland, Kurt Aland, Johannes Karavidopoulos, Carlo M. Martini, and Bruce M. Metzger. Stuttgart: Deutsche Bibelgesellschaft.

*Novum Testamentum Graece* （希腊文新约圣经－NTG28）. 28th revised edition, 2012\. Edited by Barbara Aland, Kurt Aland, Johannes Karavidopoulos, Carlo M. Martini, and Bruce M. Metzger. Stuttgart: Deutsche Bibelgesellschaft.

*Septuaginta: Id est Vetus Testamentum graece iuxta LXX interpretes* （希腊文旧约圣经《七十士译本》）. 1935; combined one\-volume edition, 1979\. Edited by Alfred Rahlfs. Stuttgart: Deutsche Bibelgesellschaft. (Cited as Septuagint.)

**中文译本**
--------

*《圣经：新标点和合本》* 。联合圣经公会，1988。（《和》）

*《圣经：吕振中译本》* 。香港圣经公会，1992。（《吕》）

*《圣经：现代中文译本修订版》* 。联合圣经公会，1994。（《现修》）

*《圣经：和合本2010》* （或称《和合本修订版》）。香港圣经公会，2010。（《和2010》）

*《圣经：思高圣经》* 。修订版。思高圣经学会，2012。 （《思》）

**现代外文译本**
----------

*Die Bibel in heutigem Deutsch: Die Gute Nachricht des Alten und Neuen Testaments*. 1982\. Stuttgart: Deutsche Bibelgesellschaft. (Cited as GECL (German Common Language Version (Gute Nachricht Bibel)), German common language version.)

*Die Bibel: Nach der Übersetzung Martin Luthers*. Revised edition, 1985\. Stuttgart: Deutsche Bibelgesellschaft.

*The Catholic Study Bible: New American Bible*. 1990\. New York: Oxford University Press. (Cited as NAB (New American Bible (1970)).)

*The Complete Bible: An American Translation*. 1923, 1927, 1948\. The Old Testament translated by J. M. Powis Smith and others; the Apocrypha and the New Testament translated by Edgar J. Goodspeed. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.

*Dios Habla Hoy: La Biblia, Versión Popular*. 1966, 1970, 1979\. New York: Sociedades Biblicas Unidas. (Cited as SPCL (Spanish Common Language Version (Dios Habla Hoy)), Spanish common language version.)

*Good News Bible: The Bible in Today’s English Version*. 1976; 2nd edition, 1992\. New York: American Bible Society. (Cited as TEV (Today's English Version (Good News Bible)).)

*Groot Nieuws Bijbel*. 1996\. Haarlem: Nederlands Bijbelgenootschap. (Cited as Dutch common language version.)

*The Holy Bible* (Authorized or King James Version). 1611\. (Cited as KJV (King James Version (1611)).)

*The Holy Bible: Contemporary English Version*. 1995\. New York: American Bible Society. (Cited as CEV (Contemporary English Version).)

*The Holy Bible: New Century Version*. 1991\. Dallas: Word Publishing.

*The Holy Bible: New Revised Standard Version*. 1989\. New York: Division of Christian Education of the National Council of Churches of Christ in the United States of America.

*The Holy Bible: Revised Standard Version*. 1952, 1971, 1973\. New York: Division of Christian Education of the National Council of the Churches of Christ in the United States of America. (Cited as RSV (Revised Standard Version (1952)).)

*The Holy Bible: Revised Version*. 1885\.

*The Jerusalem Bible*. 1966\. Garden City, New York: Doubleday. (Cited as JB (Jerusalem Bible (1966)).)

*The New American Standard Bible*. 1976, 1978\. Chicago: Moody Press.

*The New English Bible*. 1961, 1970\. Oxford: Oxford University Press; and Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. (Cited as NEB (New English Bible (1970)).)

*The New Jerusalem Bible*. 1985\. London: Darton, Longman \& Todd; and New York: Doubleday.

*The New Testament in Modern English*. 1972\. Translated by J. B. Phillips. New York: Macmillan.

*The NIV Study Bible: New International Version*. 1985\. Grand Rapids: Zondervan. (Cited as NIV (New International Version (1984)).)

*The Revised English Bible*. 1989\. Oxford: Oxford University Press; and Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. (Cited as REB (Revised English Bible (1989)).)

*TANAKH: A New Translation of the Holy Scriptures According to the Traditional Hebrew Text*. 1985\. Philadelphia: Jewish Publication Society.

*Traduction œcuménique de la Bible*. 1975\. Paris: Société biblique française et Éditions du Cerf.

**学术著作**
--------

Amitai, P. 1987\. *Handbook of Insects of Israel and Other Arthropods* (English title for a work written in modern Hebrew). Jerusalem: Keter.

Arnold, Paula Kellner, and Ferguson, Walter. 1962\. *Birds of Israel*. Haifa: Shabit Publishers.

Bauer, Walter. 1953\. "The ‘colt’ of Palm Sunday." *Journal of Biblical Literature* 72:220–229\.

Bodenheimer, F. S. 1960\. *Animal and Man in Bible Lands*. Leiden: E. J. Brill. A scholarly description of zoological and archaeological research findings current at the time. Very useful references to zoological comments from Greek, Latin and Egyptian classical writers.

Cansdale, George Soper. 1970\. *Animals of Bible Lands*. Exeter: Paternoster Press. A very useful popular book by a man who was curator of the London Zoo. Somewhat lacking in discussion of the Bible text.

Danin, Avinoam, and Arbel, Avi. 1998\. *The Fauna and Flora of the Holy Land* (English title for a work written in modern Hebrew). Jerusalem: Karta.

Darom, David. 1999\. *Animals of the Bible: From the Lion to the Snail*. Herzlia: Palphot.

Driver, G. R. 1955\. "Birds in the Old Testament: I. Birds in Law." *Palestine Exploration Quarterly* 87:5–20\. A widely quoted article (along with the following one) by a famous biblical scholar, but of limited value due to his questionable attempts to derive the meaning of names from supposed Hebrew roots, and a limited knowledge of the birds of the area.

———. 1955\. "Birds in the Old Testament: II. Birds in Life." *Palestine Exploration Quarterly* 87:129–140\.

———. Revised edition, 1963\. "Ostrich." In *Dictionary of the Bible*, pages 715–716\. Edited by James Hastings, Frederick C. Grant, and H. H. Rowley. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons.

Eshbol, Yossi. 1989, 1990\. *Guide to Birds in Israel*. Jerusalem: Society for the Preservation of Nature in Israel. Contains some of the best bird photos ever taken.

Feliks, Y. 1984\. *Animals and Plants of the Torah* (English title for a work written in modern Hebrew). Tel Aviv: Israel Zair.

——— 1982\. *Animals and Plants of the Mishnah* (English title for a work written in modern Hebrew). Jerusalem: Council for Mishnah Research.

Ferguson, Walter W. 2002\. *The Mammals of Israel*. Jerusalem: Gefen.

France, Peter. 1986\. *An Encyclopedia of Bible Animals*. Tel Aviv: Steimatsky.

Harrison, David L. 1964–1972\. *The Mammals of Arabia*. 3 volumes. London: Ernest Benn. Very useful reference book, with scholarly notes based on the author’s expeditions to the area. No reference to biblical texts.

Heinzel, Hermann, Richard Fitter, and John Parslow. 1972; 3rd edition, 1974\. *The Birds of Britain and Europe with North Africa and the Middle East*. London: Collins.

Hollom, P. A. D., et al. 1988\. *Birds of the Middle East and North Africa: A Companion Guide*. Vermillion: Buteo Books.

Hovel, H. 1987\. *Check\-list of the Birds of Israel*. Jerusalem: Society for the Preservation of Nature in Israel.

Inbar, Re’uven. 1971–1988\. *The Birds of the Land of Israel* (English title for a work written in modern Hebrew). 5 volumes. Tel Aviv: Yavneh.

———. 1977\. *Guide to the Birds of Israel* (English title for a work written in modern Hebrew). Tel Aviv: Yavneh.

\[Joergensen, K. E. J.] 1972\. *Fauna and Flora of the Bible*. London: United Bible Societies. The flora section of this book is much better than the fauna section. The drawings illustrating the fauna are not to be taken seriously, as they are inaccurate and often misleading.

Mendelssohn, Heinrich, and Y. Yom\-Tov. 1999\. *Mammalia of Israel*. Jerusalem: The Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities.

Merom, Chaim. 1960\. *The Birds of the Land of Israel* (English title for a work written in modern Hebrew). Tel Aviv: Hakibbutz Hameuhad.

Paz, Uzi. 1986\. *The Fauna and Flora of the Land of Israel* (English title for a work written in modern Hebrew). Volume 6: *Birds*. Edited by A. Alon. Tel Aviv: Ministry of Defense and Society for the Protection of Nature in Israel.

———. 1987\. *The Birds of Israel*. Tel Aviv: Steimatsky.

———. 1993\. *Birds in the Land of the Bible*. Herzlia: Palphot.

———. 1990\. *Photographic Guide to the Birds of Israel* (English title for a work written in modern Hebrew). Jerusalem: Keter.

Parmelee, Alice. Revised edition, 1988\. *All the Birds of the Bible: Their Stories, Identification, and Meaning*. New Canaan, Conn.: Keats. A popular mixture of Bible stories, medieval art, devotional material and references to the birds in the Bible.

Pinney, Roy. 1964\. *The Animals in the Bible*. Philadelphia: Chilton Books. A book with some good black and white photographs, written by a photojournalist. The first chapter deals well with the different vegetation and environment types in Israel in biblical times.

Pritz, Ray. \[forthcoming]. *The Works of Their Hands: Bible Artifacts*. New York: United Bible Societies.

Roberts, Austin, Gordon L. Maclean, Kenneth B. Newman, and Geoffrey Lockwood, editors. 5th edition, 1985\. *Roberts’ Birds of Southern Africa*. Cape Town: Trustees of the J. Voelcker Bird Book Fund.

Schouten van der Velden, Adriaan. 1992\. *Tierwelt der Bibel*. Stuttgart: Deutsche Bibelgesellschaft.

Shalmon, Benny, Tatiana Kofyan, and Ezra Hadad. 1993\. *A Field Guide to the Land Mammals of Israel* (English title for a work written in modern Hebrew). Jerusalem: Keter.

Shirihai, Hadoram. 1996\. *The Birds of Israel: A Complete Avifauna and Bird Atlas of Israel*. London: Academic Press.

Tristram, H. B. 1867\. *The Natural History of the Bible*. London: Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge. A very useful but unobtainable book, based on the author’s personal observations during a long expedition to the Middle East in the mid 19th century, before the major destruction of wild animals in the region. Illustrated with the owner’s own exceptionally good paintings. Some major libraries still have copies.

Werner, Yehudah L. 1995\. *A Guide to the Reptiles and Amphibians of Israel* (English title for a work written in modern Hebrew). Jerusalem: Nature Reserves Authority.

Wood, John George. 1888\. *Story of the Bible Animals*. Philadelphia: Office of Charles Foster’s Publications.

Yekutiel, David. 1991\. *Raptors in Israel: Passage and Wintering Populations*. Eilat: International Birdwatching Center Eilat.

**词典、文本研究和其他参考文献**
------------------

Barthélemy, Dominique; A. R. Hulst; Norbert Lohfink; W. D. McHardy; H. P. Rüger; and James A. Sanders. 1973–1980\. *Preliminary and Interim Report on the Hebrew Old Testament Text Project* （*《希伯来文旧约文本项目初步和中期报告》* ）. 5 volumes. New York: United Bible Societies. (Cited as HOTTP (Hebrew Old Testament Text Project (UBS)).)

Bratcher, Robert G., and Howard A. Hatton. 1993\. *A Handbook on the Revelation to John*. New York: United Bible Societies.

Brown, Francis; S. R. Driver; and Charles A. Briggs, editors. 1907; revised edition, 1968\. *A Hebrew and English Lexicon of the Old Testament*. London: Oxford University Press.

Cassuto, Umberto. 1967\. *A Commentary on the Book of Exodus*. Translated by Israel Abrahams. Jerusalem: Magnes Press.

Even\-Shoshan, Abraham. 2nd edition, 1989\. *A New Concordance of the Old Testament*. Grand Rapids: Baker.

Hacham, Amos. 1991\. *The Book of Exodus*. Jerusalem: Mossad Harav Kook.

Hort, Greta. 1957\. "The Plagues of Egypt." *Zeitschrift für die Alttestamentliche Wissenschaft* 69:84–103\.

Josephus, Flavius. 1930–1965\. *The Jewish Antiquities, Books 1–20*. Translated by H. St. J. Thackeray et al. 9 volumes. Loeb Classical Library. Cambridge: Harvard University Press.

de Waard, Jan, and William A. Smalley. 1979\. *A Handbook on the Book of Amos*. New York: United Bible Societies.


